let's see now how implementation
inheritance breaks encapsulation suppose
we have a dog class that has these two
methods here so there's a bark method
that does system that out that frontline
bark and bark many which uses a for loop
to call bark many times okay now to a
user on the outside I could say bark
many five times and I should get bark
bark bark bark bark and I don't really
care how its implement it I mean this is
one possible implementation but I have a
certain behavior in mind now it's
possible that later let's say the oracle
company is maintaining the dog class
maybe they decide someone comes into
work and says let's switch these right
so what I'm gonna do is make the bark
mini method called print' line bark and
the bark method is gonna call Barkham
anyone this will work exactly the same
and this change from an outsider's
perspective there is no difference right
i can call both of them i'll never see a
difference so here's where inheritance
causes trouble even though i may not
even have the source code to dog even
though it's built into java i can write
my own dog class so maybe i write one
called verbose dog and what is proposed
dog well it's a method that starts off
the bark many method by saying as a dog
i say and then calls the bark method
multiple times so let's imagine here's
my hierarchy i have a dog class and as a
bark and a bark mini class verbose dog
only overrides bark many so it inherits
bark from above so the question is if i
do
vb Barkman III where VD is a verbose dog
variable the question the question for
you is what does this do
so ponder that for a moment what will
actually output okay so we have to turn
to dynamic method selection and in this
case if we do vb bark mini the dynamic
type of the bark of the vb variable is
verbose dog so we'll call this method
that will in turn call bark and this dot
bark we see does not exist so we'll turn
to our superclass and we'll call bark so
we'll get as a dog i say bark bark bark
now finally the rub someone at oracle
decides I'm gonna switch these two
methods I don't I like the idea of bark
being here instead the actual sound so
they changed this around now we already
said that there's
no way that an outsider could ever ever
ever know but here perhaps maybe
something interesting happens I mean
something does so it's your job to
figure out what exactly so if now I do
VD bark mini three I want you to
consider this this class and think about
what happens and think really hard
because I'm gonna spoil it shortly okay
so in this case we call BD bark come in
III it's dynamic type is verbose talk so
this method executes we get here and we
say this dot bark okay
what's the dynamic type of this well it
is for post dog so we'll try and call
the bark method of verbose dog it
doesn't exist so we go to the superclass
this bark method executes and it goes
this bark a mini one what is the dynamic
type of this well the object in question
is actually its runtime type is verbose
dog so we call the bark mini method with
one as an argument
this in turn calls the bark method which
calls the bark mini method which calls
the bark method which calls the bark
mini method and we get caught in an
infinite loop so what just happened
there is that by allowing inheritance
and particular implementation
inheritance we now have a way that peek
inside of what was otherwise a
beautifully encapsulated class there was
no way to get in here but we just showed
we could and in fact it had dire
consequences we didn't change anything
about our code someone else changed
something they thought was safe and
Kapow
now this doesn't happen in a practical
way super often but it does and I think
that philosophically it's something that
makes me nervous about implementation
inheritance it breaks encapsulation and
just a really distasteful way and you
know there are benefits to
implementation inheritance but there are
trade-offs because we run afoul of this
terrible philosophical awfulness